CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing guidelines

## Contributions

All contributions to the repository must be submitted under the terms of the [Apache Public License 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

## Certificate of Origin

By contributing to this project you agree to the Developer Certificate of
Origin (DCO). This document was created by the Linux Kernel community and is a
simple statement that you, as a contributor, have the legal right to make the
contribution. See the [DCO](DCO) file for details.

## Contributing A Patch

1. Submit an issue describing your proposed change to the repo in question.
1. The [repo owners](OWNERS) will respond to your issue promptly.
1. Fork the desired repo, develop and test your code changes.
1. Submit a pull request.

## Issue and Pull Request Management

Anyone may comment on issues and submit reviews for pull requests. However, in
order to be assigned an issue or pull request, you must be a member of the
[open-cluster-management](https://github.com/open-cluster-management) GitHub organization.

Repo maintainers can assign you an issue or pull request by leaving a
`/assign <your Github ID>` comment on the issue or pull request.

## Pre-check before submitting a PR

After your PR is ready to commit, please run following commands to check your code.

```shell
make -f Makefile.prow test-unit
make -f Makefile.prow build
```

## Build images

Make sure your code build passed.

```shell
docker build -f Dockerfile.prow -t endpoint-monitoring-operator:latest .
```

Commit message:

add dco sign off info in contributing

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing guidelines

## Contributions

All contributions to the repository must be submitted under the terms of the [Apache Public License 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

## Certificate of Origin

By contributing to this project you agree to the Developer Certificate of
Origin (DCO). This document was created by the Linux Kernel community and is a
simple statement that you, as a contributor, have the legal right to make the
contribution. See the [DCO](DCO) file for details.

## DCO Sign Off

You must sign your commit to state that you certify the [DCO](DCO). To sign your commit, add a line like the following at the end of your commit message:

```
Signed-off-by: John Smith <john@example.com>
```

This can be done with the `--signoff` option to `git commit`. See the [Git documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit#Documentation/git-commit.txt--s) for details. You can also mass sign-off a whole pull request with `git rebase --signoff main`, replacing `main` with the branch you are creating a pull request from.

## Contributing A Patch

1. Submit an issue describing your proposed change to the repo in question.
1. The [repo owners](OWNERS) will respond to your issue promptly.
1. Fork the desired repo, develop and test your code changes.
1. Submit a pull request.

## Issue and Pull Request Management

Anyone may comment on issues and submit reviews for pull requests. However, in
order to be assigned an issue or pull request, you must be a member of the
[open-cluster-management](https://github.com/open-cluster-management) GitHub organization.

Repo maintainers can assign you an issue or pull request by leaving a
`/assign <your Github ID>` comment on the issue or pull request.

## Pre-check before submitting a PR

After your PR is ready to commit, please run following commands to check your code.

```shell
make -f Makefile.prow test-unit
make -f Makefile.prow build
```

## Build images

Make sure your code build passed.

```shell
docker build -f Dockerfile.prow -t endpoint-monitoring-operator:latest .
```
